this video is in part made as a reply to  a particular question from a particular  long-time viewer and supporter of the  channel and it's in part a response to  the genre of  booktube videos authortube videos  writertube videos  here on youtube which is a really  strange demand you guys may have no  familiarity with this may be the first  time you've even heard about this  phenomenon or some of you may have  already listened to innumerable hours of  this kind of uh content what struck me  immediately in turning my attention to  the  authortube writer tube  sub genre is that i'm seeing again some  of the same evils that were familiar to  me from the world of  vegan diet advice  vegan weight loss fitness advice that  kind of thing and also  strange and exotic as it may seem the  videos encouraging you  saying that you can learn a new language  in just six months  maybe you can learn a new language in  just six weeks if only you follow these  few special pieces of advice if only you  will buy my ebook and use my special  tools if only you'll hear through my  special reasoning if only you'll follow  my guidance there's this sort of  unbelievable  emphasis  on  method on craft  now these are three completely different  fields different provinces different  types of human endeavor right okay so  you think about diet fitness weight loss  it's one type of endeavor  how much does craft matter how much does  technique  matter how much does methodology matter  in that field and in what way in what  way does it matter right like even you  think it was like doing a push-up i did  150 push-ups today  not not quite 200  my usual i did 150 pushups a day  if i had done the the technique  slightly differently  there were so many youtube channels  selling you on this if you'll do the  push-up in exactly the way i do it then  you know the size of your chest muscles  will expand more or something you know a  slight difference in technique how much  of a difference is that going to make  compared to for example the difference  between doing 100 push-ups and doing 200  but  like if you have one guy who does 100  push-ups with perfect technique another  guy does 200 push-ups but with sloppier  technique you know who's going to win  this race  in what not i'm not just asking the  question does method matter at all  how much does it matter in what way does  it matter right when you're turning to  something like  learning a language  right  all these people are trying to  commodify  methodology they're trying to commodify  a trick  a tip  a technique a 12-step guide these seven  simple steps sometimes all they want you  to do is watch the youtube video and  like share and subscribe so that's as  far as hook goes but very often there's  a further step of monetizing you know  this kind of advice now today we're not  talking about either of these we're  talking about so  shout out to william again yeah 200  pushups a day is my normal thing so  today was 150 was my second workout i  did a first workout at the gym and then  the second time i went 150 just just so  you're all up to date  um  okay if you're talking about writing  are we talking about craft  are we talking about method are we  talking about  technique and to what extent are we  talking about much more uncomfortable  subjects like the life of the mind and  what's never talking about who you are  in terms of the story you have to tell  and why you would be the person to tell  it  and not somebody else lots of guys have  been to cambodia  like literally millions of people go on  vacation to cambodia every year i don't  i don't know the numbers we could look  it up cambodian tourist bureau okay okay  why would you  be the guy to write this book about  cambodia right  if your answer is method if your answer  is technique that's not a very good  answer is it see  this is the kind of topic i love to  record videos about it's shallow and  it's deep at the same damn  time  i once saw an interview with a  professional boxer this was after his  retirement it was also an interview with  some of his coaches some of the guys who  worked with him during his glory days i  do not remember this guy's name and it's  probably for the best i don't because  i'm probably getting some of the details  wrong here  and some of you who are fans of boxing  will know right away who i'm talking  about from this anecdote but the story  there may be different levels of  fabrication and  mystification and myth-making here but  the story  as i was told  was that this guy he was a very large  very strong african-american  who had been working in  organized crime his whole life  and he had just recently moved up to  being a professional assassin being a  professional  hitman to doing paid contracts to kill  people for a living what he did before  that  i can't imagine  but this was a kind of promotion  for him he had never been trained in  boxing  he had never been trained  in any sport he didn't have a prior  background in football or something else  like this and he went into  one of these gyms one day where there  were really serious coaches really  serious trainers who'd worked with  olympic athletes  and he gets into the ring and he starts  throwing punches  and they're amazed  and they say right away it's his first  day in the gym he has no training he has  no experience  the main thing people said about this  guy and i remember they had a quote from  muhammad ali about him was just he  punches hard  you know apparently he really threw his  whole body weight into every punch he  just punched with all the strength he  had him he had no training and no  coaching and on his first day in the gym  the coaches and trainers were saying  look we can sign you up we can make you  a professional boxer and you're going to  be in the top ten you're going to be one  of the greatest boxers like you know you  may not be number one but you are gonna  be a contender in the top title fight so  they could tell right there right this  guy hadn't even done the jogging he  hadn't done the jump rope he hadn't done  the speed back he'd done  nothing  okay  you know what had he done  he'd gotten used to  punching people  so hard  right  punching people  to save his own life in situations of  self-defense  and punching people  like he wanted to kill them  the difference between  a great boxer  and an amateur boxer  is it method  is it training  is it technique is it  you know most people most of them say oh  yeah oh yeah and you know you have to  start training when you're 12 years old  and between 12 and 16 you have to build  up these skills really  what about physical size what about  physical strength what about brutality  what about some of those attitudes that  maybe we don't want to think about go  into  really punching someone with all the  strength in your body holding nothing  but you're really hurling yourself at  someone with this kind of ferocity  what if that's not a technique  okay i'm not saying  training and technique have nothing to  do with success  in boxing i'm challenging you to think  how important is this  and in what way  is it important right now  those aspects uh methodology  that's what we can monetize especially  now in the 21st century oh any of you  guys in the audience if you haven't  already had this this idea start your  own youtube channel here are the 10  techniques that will make you a champion  boxer here are the 10 you know speed bag  methods and here are the heavy bag  methods and here's here's how you should  do push-ups here's exactly the angle at  which you wanted to push  you can get really fussy with really  particular techniques that will give  people some kind of tiny edge  or advantage right and and no one's  going to say  no one's going to say hey if you want to  be really great at boxing  you know guess what maybe you're born  with it or you're not right like just in  terms of the dimensions of your body  right no one say hey you know what you  know what it really takes to be a boxer  getting out there and actually literally  being a killer actually knowing what  it's like to fight for your life maybe  that's what hell maybe that's the  technique that helps the most nobody  wants to think that through now  there are some of you in the audience  who think this is a really obstruct  allegory for what i'm saying about  writing how to be a great writer or a  great novelist whether it's fiction or  not some of you think wow it's really a  big stretch the imagination to see how  this applies to the craft and technique  of writing and some of you know exactly  what the [ __ ] i'm talking about without  me having to draw the dotted lines  right who's gonna write who's gonna  write this book about cambodia  is it gonna be the guy with the best  technique  or is it going to be the guy who was a  real killer  literally or figuratively you figured  out who has  the story to tell and then who's going  to be able to who's going to be able to  tell it right but you see we can't  monetize that right so in terms of a  hashtag booktube hashtag authortube  hashtag writertube in terms of what's  being monetized here on youtube whether  it's vegan diet and weight loss whether  it's you know  under these different headings right  it's methodology  it's technique that's what we can  mystify  and that's what we can commodify  and that's what we can claim is the  difference between a successful writer  and an unsuccessful  this cup this merch this is the  difference between  yeah  there were a lot of italians that are  frankly about that about that vulgar  some time ago  uh this is off talk but it's right on  topic  i looked up the man who was quite  literally  the first bodybuilder in the history of  europe  and um  it's an interesting story in in many  ways he was a jewish immigrant or a  jewish refugee  and his judaism is much  much concealed as you can imagine due to  anti-semitism in europe at that time  and um when he first started doing these  exercises first started doing these  demonstrations of public shows what  people said understandably was nobody  had seen physique like this nobody had  seen muscles like this really popping  off of the human body  since the statues of ancient greece and  rome now if you don't know this in a  time before photography even  there were plastic replicas of all the  greatest statues from ancient athens and  rome that were distributed throughout  europe so you might think only a small  number of people could actually travel  to athens this is true small number of  trophies but the most famous statues  especially those that were men rippling  with with muscles they do they look like  bodybuilders those ancient greek statues  those were seen in all the cities of  europe i mean berlin paris even some  small university towns one of the  reasons being that you know artists  would want to sit and and copy them  they'd want to learn from the example  how to do  how to draw how to paint how to sculpt  uh so and so forth you know so it was  quite commonly seen but of course  everyone wondered there were athletes  you know there were military men but  there were no men with these tremendous  muscles you know popping off their body  this guy the first  bodybuilder in history of europe  he was also  the first hit author  to write a book telling you how you  could have six-pack abs  he wasn't just  a bodybuilder he wasn't just a showman  because there had been strong men before  him where they performed on stage  lifting heavy objects he did that he did  that also right but for him the main  step forward he took was not lifting  heavy things on stage which she which he  did it was just posing and flexing you  know wearing a loincloth right and he  also sold photographs of himself but the  posing and flexing on stage that was new  and then he sold you a book  and the book explained the technique  whereby you could develop your  musculature also and then then  he sold you equipment  he sold you devices with springs so you  could help help build up your your  strength just mentioned the guy was  completely utterly non-vegan  and he died of heart attack at quite an  early age so despite his amazing uh  physique he had a very high meat diet  and he he collapsed and died but still  still young and  in the in the beauty and vigor of the  youth  as i recall he stopped by the side of  the road  to push a cart out of a ditch  and um  he was famed for his feet of strength he  could lift a horse on stage anything  like that  um the cart wasn't that heavy  but he uh he got out to help someone  with a  you know  some kind of card or carriage that had  gone off the side of the road  and you can imagine he wasn't warmed up  it's the perfect time to have a heart  attack  got out and rolled up his sleeves to  push this card out of a ditch  had a heart attack uh collapsed and died  at this point this was literally  the first bodybuilder but already this  pattern that i'm criticizing the video  of taking the leap from my personal  accomplishment my personal beauty etc to  monetizing that through a book selling  you advice and then equipment and so on  right it was already ongoing uh it  didn't uh  didn't take a whole lot didn't take a  whole lot of time to uh to develop over  over decades or centuries okay so i have  a message uh i have a question from over  the audience  melissa is here just off camera she can  uh  interrupt my uh my flow at any time she  can uh overturn the flow of conversation  and guys i am seeing your comments as  they come in if you have something  tremendously intelligent to say you can  also  overturn the flow of my monologue at any  time  so  a long time viewer and supporter of the  channel who just uses the nickname cedar  writes in  quote this is kind of related to  learning pali but it's more of a general  question about the life of the mind  so if you don't know pali is an ancient  language it is now a dead language but  it is closely related to the living  languages of india so it is not so  different from marathi in modern india  but it is it's an ancient dead language  but has some application in modern  languages of india today  um  i continued the quotation  how do you balance your intellectual  interests  for context my main ambition in life has  always been to become a writer fiction  and non-fiction i also know there's no  use being a writer  if you have nothing to write about  i don't want to be someone who works for  years honing my craft only to write  shallow and empty books so i'm trying to  figure out how to chuckle sorry you see  the way in which i uh uh foreshadowed uh  the the the questions and issues that  are placed in this email  um he doesn't want to spend years of his  life owning his craft only to write show  one of your books quote so i'm now  trying to figure out how to juggle the  advancement of my craft with the  dispelling of my ignorance  and within that there are many  individual research research projects i  could take up  how do you approach having broad  interests when do you just read a few  articles when do you read a few books  and when do you decide to devote years  of your life to something as you did  with the study of buddhism so again  melissa may have slandered about this  melissa has been this has been sprung on  her as a complete surprise you guys in  the audience may or may not have signed  us to say about this but i'm going to  start by responding to the very first  part of that message  all right  he says it's a question about being a  writer it's a question but the life of  the mind and then he says  how do you balance  your intellectual interests  when i was still in high school i had  the breakthrough i had the realization  there is no such thing as balance  all right  balance doesn't exist all right balance  is always a scam it's always a form of  self-deception or of someone else  deceiving you right there is no balance  now uh  i'm going to give you a couple of  examples here so you know where i'm  coming from especially among the british  you always find british men  who don't really want to commit to the  woman in their life their girlfriend  frankly could even be their their wife  there's a man and he's with a woman  he says well you know i only spend so  many hours with her and then i spend a  certain number of hours hanging out with  the guys or  watching football or going to football  games or and when you get to know him  well when he trusts you enough it may be  that what he means by hanging out with  the guys is actually going to bars and  nightclubs where he's attempting to  pursue other women or it may be that  he's actually pursuing and sleeping with  other women even if it's occasionally a  couple times a year british culture very  different from america this way french  culture  same thing but frankly on another level  i think honestly if you got to know the  different countries of europe  you could now insert an analysis about  italian culture  ukrainian and russian culture you know  what do you mean by balance i can tell  you with the british what it always  comes down to is that these men  don't want to feel that they're losing  something of themselves  they feel that their own  status is elevated by having a kind of  disdain and scorn for the woman in their  life rather than really loving her 100  you know rather than really devoting  themselves  to that relationship now don't get me  wrong i'm not here saying uh monogamy is  a prerequisite for all good things in  life if you just search for the word  monogamy on my channel you can hear me  philosophizing about this from six  different versions not i'm not saying  that at all  um  but my point is if you don't look at  this in terms of balance if you instead  look at the relationship and say look  bro  what if you give this relationship  110  what if you give it  everything you've got  you give it everything you've got to  give and if that's not enough or it  doesn't work out then he can say to her  look  i did all i could i gave everything i  had to give and more so now if this  isn't working out  we got to break up we got to move on  because i've got nothing else to get put  yourself in that position as opposed to  frankly you half-ass it as we say in  plain english you go kind of 50 percent  and then you try to stay cool and low  aloof and keep your options open as we  say in plain english you try to [ __ ]  around and then there you are weeping  when the relationship uh falls apart and  you know the relationship may fall apart  because she meets another guy who's more  handsome than you or it may fall apart  for all kinds of different reasons it  may fall apart neither one of you knows  why it fell apart i have a friend who's  going through divorce right now  i feel i know exactly why that couple  fell apart but that's another story but  you know like uh  you know have you thought about giving  this absolutely 110  you know the most intensity the most and  what would that be just even visualize  it right now notice the whole way i've  structured this discourse i'm not  promising you'll succeed on the contrary  right up front i'm talking about the  possibility or the probability of  failure you can give this relationship  give this woman 110 of everything you  have to give and it ends in failure but  when you walk away you walk away with  the knowledge i gave this 110  right okay so any of these interests for  any period of my life do you think i had  a balanced approach to the study of  buddhist philosophy no  i gave it a hundred and ten percent my  dude  so when people say to me if if anyone  were to say to me oh you know you could  have gotten a phd in buddhist philosophy  i can say no  no no no and i went to england and i met  professor gombrich and i became friends  with madame philliozat i i knew all the  leading figures in the field and  everyone was so impressed with me in my  research all kinds of people told me i  was a genius and i was the future of  buddhist scholarship and i published all  these provocative articles i did all  this research well it was oh no no my  dude i gave it 110  i knocked myself out i know what's  possible and what's impossible i know  what i've got to give and i know when  i've reached my limit of what i've got  to give right like that's that's  subjective what's possible in that sense  and then i know objectively what's  possible in the rest of the world i know  might do just briefly about a  scholarship  i know what's possible in sri lanka and  i know what's impossible like i know  what's possible in thailand you know  it's impossible to i know what's  possible in  cambridge england oxford  poland like you know what i mean  all around the world not just canada  united states or something i got to know  what was possible impossible i gave it  110  and then when it is done it is done  homie and i don't look back on that as  like 10 years of my life in which i was  half-assing it or you know or in which i  had you know some other interest or  something or oh you know well you have  to have balance like what do you mean  balance between playing world of  warcraft  you know playing some [ __ ] video game  for six hours at a time and and you know  reading books for three hours no  no balance no balance between social  life and research no balance between  video games no balance but i didn't  watch sports during those years no no no  i was really committed to doing that  110 now i can go through a whole bunch  of other examples in my life and you can  say the same thing  um you know when i worked on korean  ojibwe as languages first nations  languages american indian languages a  hundred and ten percent  i was once actually really upset with my  with my ex-wife now she was my wife at  the time she was trying to get me to do  a research project on buddhism  i remember the room we were in and  everything so vividly essentially don't  don't you understand  like that is over for me i'm not a  scholar of buddhism anymore don't you  see me knocking myself out like i'm i'm  going to the library every day i'm  putting in the hours to work on korean  egypt i'm starting a totally new career  which also entails its own political  obligations its own kind of ethical and  moral uh quiddities shall we say you  know i'm really committed to korea  ojibwe first nations both this is what  i'm doing now and from my perspective  that's what i'm doing with the rest of  my life like i can't believe you're  trying to rope me into this research  project on on buddhism in asia i forget  buddhism in china buddhism in taiwan it  was it was something like that you know  it's like you you don't understand me at  all  she didn't understand me  no no balance i'm not trying to do vote  no you know no that's it it's absolute  total give it 110 and look if you think  that ends in tragedy because already we  only got two examples on the table if  you think oh well at the end of that  process  you're in this tragic ruined condition  of saying i worked so hard i gave it  everything i had to give i poured my  heart into i poured my mind i poured my  efforts into  this language this area of study and  also these these linked political  aspirations humanitarian aspirations you  know altruistic aspirations like  aspirations make the world a better  place you know okay you gave this 110  you poured everything you had to pour  into this right  um  isn't it sad isn't it tragic now that  you have to quit and that you give up  and go on  what's sad  what's tragic is when you half-ass it  right when you give it 50  instead of 110 when you don't really  commit when you don't really push  your own limits  right  you don't find out what's possible and  impossible for you subjectively and in  the world objectively whether that  involves universities or humanitarian  projects whatever it is whatever the  outside  contingencies and requirements are that  make things possible or impossible in  your life right if you don't give it 110  then you will never really know now i  think for most of you it's easy to see  how this applies to sports like if you  don't train with a hundred and ten  percent  of ferocity  how should i how should i put it um if  you don't absolutely give it all you  have to give then you'll never know what  you're capable of in the sport you'll  never know what's possible and  impossible for you in the sport um  maybe it's harder to see how that  applies to  being an author being a writer  the life of the mind and that's why  we're having this discussion right now  um but no i don't i don't believe in  balance  and as i'm indicating here also  i don't think it's likely  that the constraint or the limitation  you're gonna run into is  technique  you know like i don't think it's likely  that what's gonna halt your progress  is that you're doing the push-ups  slightly wrong  slightly less than optimally if you're  doing 200 push-ups a day you're doing  200 push-ups a day if you're only doing  20 push-ups you're doing it with perfect  technique are you this is not going to  make the difference you're not no  melissa do you want to jump in you're  like i mean for you you've lived such a  different life than i have  so you know  yeah i  know but look there was a time this  isn't so i'm not going to mention  anything that's secret  you know there was a time when you took  on a totally new career path  going into a specialized form of of  nursing so this is nursing for people  with disabilities in speech it's a ton  of work  a ton of study and like look you know  by all means disagree with me wrong when  you quit so you did all this research  and all this work and you took courses  and things to prepare for this new  special career  and when you decided against it  you were 100 certain no this is not the  career i want it's not growing  so i just said it may seem like you have  no experience with this book but i think  that is an example you know but  yeah no i i  there's a lot there's a lot to think  about  [Music]  you know  at a certain point you know you have to  and it's a different kind of regret  right like i'm not saying there's no  regret one or the other you know do i  regret moving to cambodia sure sure but  when i was in cambodia gave it 110 i was  learning the cambodian language history  politically i'm sorry i would say but  you know i have lots of those examples  my point is even someone like melissa  you you can actually relate to that i  think even your engagement with music  classical music playing instruments  i think it's a similar sort of thing  where you gave it 110 until one day you  figured you got to give it zero no  well thank you thank you for saying that  that's that's flattering um  yeah um i you know  i'm not very self-critical so i i can  think of ways i could have really  put more into my study of music when i  did uh i can think of ways that i i  should have been more dedicated to  the study of speech pathology when i was  interested in that and when i was  researching that and pursuing that so i  mean  from my perspective now at age 29 i'm  very critical of how i spent my my youth  uh so you know i appreciate you saying  that but  you know um that was  with that career decision you know i  went through a series of just deciding  you know i'm gonna i'm gonna do this 100  percent and then quit you know  multiple different times you know so  yeah i just say it's it's you know the  agony it's not like you yeah well you  say that i think i think you know  it's of course it's not the same nothing  else is studying pali nothing else is  studying korean nothing else is studying  a gym but nothing else is studying  chinese i get it but still and nothing  else is being a creative writer nothing  else is writing a novel whatever you  want to say but still i do think there's  at least a point of comparison there  where you you know to some extent the  agony you know where was we said yeah  for sure um yeah i think something that  uh  in the question that i found interesting  is that you know there's no point in  being a writer a good writer if you have  nothing to write about  um  that's just something i think  you would have a lot to say about  because you know you've lived an  interesting life and you do have  you do a lot to say and you know you  could you could write a lot and i i  remember various people like suggesting  that you write a memoir because of this  and every time you've basically said  well i'm not interested in writing a  memoir so yeah maybe you could  i'm just curious about that decision you  know your decision has not been to  write about your travels in just a  self-indulgent way you know whenever you  write about your or talk about your life  on youtube it's you know you have a  point  well i relate this back actually  something you quoted from me melissa  recently quoted one of my own statements  on twitter so i now haven't used twitter  for several years but my what i said in  the past on twitter is still there  you know um  so this is useful for the topic of this  video but it doesn't it's not related to  the  question sent in from a viewer um but i  had a statement on twitter to the effect  that you know no  writing is not about what you have to  say to yourself it's not a process of  self-examination or self-reflection  writing a story writing an essay writing  a book you know idi is actually about  communicating to other people it's not  writing a diary it's not talking to your  therapist and i do think that's  as simple as that misconception is it's  one of the most prevalent misconceptions  and you know to give an example the poet  rilke  uh rilke has a book  um  letters to a younger poet letters to a  young poet it says advice to a an author  he started you can imagine it's  still this day it's a best-selling book  it's telling people what they want to  hear especially from a kind of  judeo-christian  uh theological perspective  and it's all about you know looking  within you know man you can't you can't  learn this from anyone else  you can't learn how to be a writer from  other people's criticism or respond to  what people are no man it's just about  looking within and your own feeling and  your own sorrow and your own love and  this this is a totally self-indulgent  solipsistic and diaristic  form you know of of writing uh  so you know my my whole approach to  writing fiction and non-fiction  you are writing i am writing  for an audience like i am writing for a  client i am writing to spec you know  it's very much my approach and you know  again you guys now can read my writing  you can criticize it  my writing does contain anecdotes about  my relationship with my father my  writing does contain anecdotes about my  relationship with my my first wife but  you will see those reflections are  really used to exemplify and explain the  thesis the political point i'm making  it's it does have an emotional effect on  the reader  but is by no means self-indulgent soul  obsessed or diaristic you know that is  really being said you know for you  so you know um  there are many aspects of this look  could i have written a book  at age 21 you know before i had  gone out to see the glory of cambodia or  whatever you want to say before i'd done  these other interesting things in my  life you know  this this will come back to this will  connect to uh the advice i'm going to  give to this this person is writing in  you know  i i think the main stumbling block  wasn't uh the main thing that would have  made it impossible for me to be a good  writer at age 21  but made it easy at 31 and even easier  at 41. actually doesn't have to do with  experience it doesn't have to do with  being an interesting person which  is a complex concept and only partly may  be derived from experience because again  plenty of guys have been a cambodian  plenty of people spent time in cambodia  laos in thailand  most of them are not interesting people  um they're people who've been to all the  same places i've been and you know they  have nothing interesting to say no  interesting stories to tell about it um  you know i really think the main  stumbling block was just that i had  never given voice to i had never  verbally spoken through the things i  would need to write about  so already at age 21 right  i'm deeply unhappy with democracy in  canada  i'm deeply unhappy with  the university as an institution  with high school as an institution with  the police with  you know well indeed with parliament  with city hall  with ecology i'm deeply unhappy at 21  with the genocide of our indigenous  people with the fact that the indigenous  languages are going extinct and nobody  seems to care nobody's going to do  anything about it it's a whole long list  of things i still care about today and i  already cared about them at age 21. and  be with you a 21 i already was an  interesting person i already had  interesting things to say about that  right  at a minimum i had something interesting  to say  uh negatively in terms of a demolition  of other points of view right there's  something i could i could contribute as  a writer  whether or not i had something so much  to say positively is another is another  question do you need more life life  experience of that right  um  i think it's really very artificial to  separate  writing from speaking this way  uh is this a digression that's not a  digression at all why are  romance novels so terrible  modern romance in modern novels not  talking about 19th century or 183 2003  why are romance novels so terrible  they're written by people  who have no real experience with  love  for an audience  that has no real experience in love it  is absolutely a for-profit industry  consisting of  the blind leading the blind i mean it's  this kind of mystification for the sense  of mystification and think about how  differently any of these books be  written it was really written by someone  who had a lot of this kind of experience  of being married being divorced having  gone through those things and then  writing about that in a in a really  realistic and useful and  and cautionary way  um  well when you go through those things  when you have just having the experience  whether that's going to cambodia  or falling in love and getting married  and then later  getting disenchanted and getting  divorced you know okay  but what goes along with that if you're  not a nebbish if you're not a shut-in  right is talking about it and not  talking about it once and not talking  about it twice talking about it ten  times talking about 20 times sorry about  100 times right like how many times  sorry because i  just say flashback i had a friend when i  was still in university who was an  immigrant from syria so his parents  immigrated from syria when he was a  toddler or a baby i forget but he was  very small he had basically grown up in  canada spoke english as his first  language but he you know syrian  immigrant family could tell their whole  story  um  they lived in a small town  in ontario not not in the big city okay  and i remember one of the first times i  ever tried to verbalize what was so  wrong with the university in the class  with that like look the whole system is  broken and this is torment and i want to  drop out of these classes or i want to  commit suicide like it's that bad being  in this university it's so terrible i  was trying to articulate it to this guy  this is really possibly the first time i  tried to tell anyone and his response as  a syrian immigrant who had never been to  university himself was 100  hostile  100  contemptuous and dismissive  you know he absolutely could not believe  that the university was anything other  than a wonderful privilege that rich  people were enjoying and that he was not  enjoying now  okay we can see it in that we can  confort him that he wasn't capable  but the fault lies with me i couldn't  verbalize it i couldn't explain it to  him in a way that would get through to  him what it was that was so terrible  about these these university classes now  sure obviously he was hostile he didn't  want to listen  some of it's on his end but you think  about what a challenge that is so how is  challenging you know i'm jewish he  perceived me as jewish too he didn't  perceive me as white he perceived me as  jewish in some context these are two  very different things but here i am a  relatively privileged jewish canadian  he's a syrian immigrant  and he feels like he's being excluded  from going to university  i'm not going to tell his whole life  story here it's not not really true his  p is actually his parents are wealthier  than mine it's that guy i do i do know  his family story but that we're saying  actually his parents were quite wealthy  they were they were wealthy but  unsophisticated  he can't go to university and he doesn't  get along with his parents he's got his  own situation here  you know  all he can do is feel envy and  resentment towards me and in downtown  toronto he's literally walking past the  university often enough it's not far  away you're seeing these architectural  monuments or anything this is this  wonderful institution he wishes he could  be inside right what a challenge for me  as a creative writer think about it as a  composition can you write an essay can  you write an epistle you know can you  write a monologue as a stand-up comedian  that's going to reach that audience  that's going to reach someone that say  hey look i know you think  there's something wonderful happening in  the university but it's so bad it's so  awful i want to drop out of these  classes or i want to commit suicide like  it's really that bad the oldest  university is that terrible you know can  you like this is a huge challenge right  now sorry again just thinking through  the first several times i had to  verbalize that kind of critique uh to  someone you know sometimes you're  talking to a professor sometimes you're  talking to your parents or your  grandparents  you know but you're talking to people  and their idea of the university may be  from the 1960s their idea of a  university may be from the 1940s right  they have a whole different in as much  as they know what a university is they  may not have thought about it for a  really long time  right and it's just all the different  kinds of ignorance and arrogance and  reluctance you're going to encounter in  just trying to explain  universities in canada are awful now i  said i just wrote a book in many does  anyone know how many pages of my new  book no more manifestos are specifically  about the the  the the con specifically about the  complaint that universities in canada  are awful there are quite a few pages in  there saying that and you guys can read  the book and then you can tell me you  know how uh how how how bad a job did i  do how did it uh how did it work out you  know  but anyway i made the effort and it was  it wasn't act it was a challenge as a as  a creative writer but this is what i'm  saying so i am answering melissa's  question here  and it it connects with uh answering the  question from from the viewer you know i  don't actually think  that going to cambodia made me an  interesting person living and working in  laos  maybe  however  you know  i did verbalize to people in cambodia to  people in laos to people in united china  i did explain to them  how [ __ ] up canadian society is  you know that's a really interesting  challenge like think about that as an  exam as a challenger writer i've  mentioned this before i'm probably going  to mention it again in future when i was  in laos i met and spoke to people who  literally thought  that australia and europe were very  close together because they had only  ever seen a two-dimensional map of the  world  and they thought the map of the world  worked like pac-man the arcade game  pac-man or if you go off one end of the  map you teleport together they literally  thought the reason why australia was  full of white people was that it was a  really short trip from the south of  australia to like the north of england  you could just go whoop and reappear  that was how you could do boat travel  this this is the level of ignorance of  the world we're talking about and you  know so to to sit and talk with people  often in their language in a foreign  language but even if it's in english in  a really foreign culture and explain to  them look i know you've heard some  things about my country  some of you have heard my country is  hell on earth you've heard it's this  horrible imperialist capitalist you know  a terrible place  not that often did you encounter people  but by the time i was there most of the  communist propaganda had kind of gone  into style you know okay and maybe  you've heard that it's paradise and the  streets are paid gold and everyone's  wealthy you know what i'm going to try  to communicate you this really  sophisticated cynical view of the world  you know what  the problem is that the education system  is hollow we have universities but they  don't work we have parliaments we have  ostensibly democratic institutions many  more so we're saying if you think about  it in terms of  just the talking just the verbalization  just the analysis just the conversation  just  convincing others of your point of view  right in that sense  those journeys that time right that made  me a better writer and it made me better  at doing what we're doing right now in  gaming models  um you don't have to go to cambodia to  do that okay i think the reason why so  few people in the 21st century are  capable of writing anything fiction or  non-fiction is that they are drug  addicts who stay at home playing video  games like period if you if your life  revolves around smoking marijuana and  playing video games you will never  develop as a writer it doesn't matter if  you do that in canada or in cambodia i  mean it doesn't you can go to the north  pole in the south pole you can go go to  the antarctic and back and the whole  time you're smoking marijuana and  playing video games you're never going  to develop in this way right but you  know  in case you haven't noticed implicitly  i've also been breaking down the barrier  between speech and writing you know if  you can say it in a monologue you can  write it in a book right if you can  compose what you're trying to say the  story you're trying to tell you can say  it into an audio recorder and play it  back to your own voice right if you can  overcome that challenge then you can be  a great writer now and if you can't  what the [ __ ] you gonna write about just  just to put a human face on that make it  easier for it to understand what i'm  what i'm saying here  um  hypothetically  let's say you have a cousin  who you got who got married  and  and then let's say just one year after  he got married  he got divorced  and nobody told you why what happened  and you started around  different members of your family  you know you asked your grandmother oh  hey my cousin ed you know i i heard he  got married but then  seemed like just a few months later what  what happened you get your grandmother's  perspective okay and you talk to  your older sister or you talk to this  person that person you get a few  different versions of events and then  finally you talk to him you talk to ed  you get a whole long  story from it oh  and now let's say  just by happenstance  a few months after that you bump into  ed's ex-wife  and then you hear  her side of the story  what if you take that constellation  of different version of events right  different versions of events and you  bring them together and now you want to  tell your story  you want to tell  the story  okay can you record that as a youtube  monologue how many takes do you need  okay you need a minute to think about it  right  and your version  may include the incongruous contrast  between what one person said and what  another person things that just don't  make sense to you right what was it that  happened  and you may have a strong sense of who  your cousin was in high school  and you may now be questioning how much  did he change  in the few years he was in university or  in the one year of his marriage in what  ways is he a different man from the man  you thought he would turn out to be you  have some you have some questions now  you have a story to tell  right  my point is it's not the craft  of being  a writer but it's not technique it's not  methodology can you tell that story  right can you organize all the different  plots and subplots right the different  things the audience you're going to  conceal and reveal to the audience as it  goes can you make that into a story  that's in some way perhaps it's slightly  philosophical perhaps it's meaningful  perhaps it's instructive perhaps it's  comedy right perhaps it's really just  funny the funniest way possible whatever  the story is you you have to tell  um  people will never develop the ability to  do that  smoking marijuana and playing video  games and that's we this is an epidemic  in our society now my grandparents  generation they were not angels they  were terrible people in many many ways  my grandparents generation generally and  my grandparents as particular people  terrible people many ways  however they spent their time  sitting around playing cards and talking  with the other people like just the  number of hours those people spent  talking right on their way to work on  their way from work while sitting around  playing cards talk was a huge part of  their lives telling stories  was a huge part of their lives so  what have i been doing on this youtube  channel for the past five years maybe  for the past eight years by now right  i'm getting real though i already think  i was a great writer at 25. i didn't  have a way to make money out of it so it  didn't do a whole hell of a lot right i  think already by 25  i had everything i needed in terms of  technique or skill to be a great writer  by 35 i had more than enough right but  it's kind of interesting what happened  in my life between age  35 and age 40  i spent hundreds and hundreds of hours  talking and storytelling right  and you can too  [Laughter]  all right so point one the first part of  my reply to this letter was i don't  believe in balance right i don't  recommend balance for  anything sky you know don't search for a  balance  in your intellectual interests right  if you're actually interested in  something why aren't you committed to it  110  and maybe you're not that interested in  it  you know maybe that's the answer maybe  when you maybe if you try to commit to  110 you can't maybe that tells you  something about yourself maybe that  tells you something about the thing  you're  you're interested in you know there are  languages i studied for a short period  of time i studied korean at two  different points at least maybe three  points two different points they were  called now i studied the korean  language i started learning korean  right why i had good reasons i could  tell you all the reasons i want to learn  korean but they were incorrect  all right i wanted korea to be something  like cambodia  you know i wanted korea to be a war-torn  country  you know  with democracy contending against  communism  right  it's not completely crazy casey didn't  know north korea and south korea are  still in a state of war you know it's  not completely off-base right but you  know what i figured out was in effect  korea could never be for me what  cambodia and laos would be you know this  is way back i studied korean before i  committed to studying cambodian before i  started getting involved in cambodian  laws right so i'm just saying it wasn't  crazy but like well you try to do korean  you commit to 100 and then you start to  figure out what it is you're getting  into  and maybe it's wrong for you right and  again you may also figure out things  about yourself you may figure out why it  is you person so another example i've  never wanted to commit 110 to being a  visual artist to being a painter or  illustrator  but i have written children's story  books  and i have many times wanted to be able  to illustrate my own children's  storybooks  right  and i have a certain level of skill as a  kind of cartoonist i can draw  okay  all right  um  i have bought books in the past i've  bought pens have bought materials to sit  down and start getting serious about  improving my ability in illustration  it's a lot of hours it's a lot of  you really want to do this you know what  i'm saying and i'm not looking for a  balance guys i'm not looking for a hobby  right either i'm 100 in or i'm 100 out  like either i care passionately about  illustration enough  i'm gonna draw the best i possibly can  i'm gonna improve my skill level in  illustration and drawing  and i'm willing to publish this book  with my name on it with my pictures in  it right like that's that's your  reputation of the line  rest if these drawings are not good or  not good enough right  it's it's your beatrix potter moment  right it's not a hobby it's not a game  right it's a hundred percent commitment  or it's nothing then we're just talking  about children in storybooks here but  that's true  in effect you would ruin a good  storybook with lousy illustrations right  nobody would ever take your the quality  of your writing seriously because of the  low quality of illustrations if you're  not in it  absolutely 100  so you know that there is no  balance  i feel like  balance in this sense  is a biological metaphor and people  don't stop to think  how misplaced the comparison to biology  really is  in these situations okay how much  protein do you need in your diet  as opposed to how much  fat  how many grams of carbohydrates all  right the classic  macronutrient breakdown fat protein  carbohydrates  you can talk about this as a balance  this is what we talk about biological  factors guess what  [Laughter]  what we're talking about here today has  nothing to do with balance balance it's  just like  toto generate inappropriate this is a  totally different category of things  right this is a  it's an error in reasoning to think you  can apply it to this this category or  genre of things entirely you know  all right so i continue reading his  question here  quote for context my main ambition in  life has always been to become a writer  fiction and non-fiction  why  all right now if i were talking to this  guy face to face i don't know his age  he could be 19 he could be 49 i don't  know doesn't matter if i'm talking to  him man to man this is where it's going  to get  real uncomfortable  and real intimidating right why  why is it the fantasy of being a writer  that has always appealed to you of  working  in silence  and isolation and then publishing and  being adored and celebrated by millions  doesn't that tell me something kind of  ugly  about you  you don't want to be a stand-up comedian  huh you don't want to have to write  jokes  for an audience  and then get on stage  and find out what's funny and what's not  the hard way huh you don't want to be a  radio talk show host right  you don't want to be a youtuber  you don't want to do research and  political commentary  on youtube you don't want to be a  politician you don't want to help people  you don't want to be a policeman  why why why why why why right  and if you wanted to be a writer  why wouldn't you want to be a filmmaker  well you say fiction and non-fiction oh  so you're too good to do documentary  filmmaking why  so what and just saying because his  statement is  that he always  wanted to be a writer always  you never wanted to be a fireman you  never want to be a police officer you  never want to be a statue really  when you really think about it maybe  what you really wanted was to be a  stand-up comedian  but you figured out that you're too shy  or you're too awkward you're not  handsome enough you're not charismatic  enough and you retreated to this fantasy  of being a writer maybe maybe and but  for someone else maybe it always was the  fantasy of being a writer right one of  the crucial aspects of being a writer is  that it is a lonely  life you work alone and nobody  understands you and then the fantasy is  the fantasy is that like george rr  martin  you end up fabulously wealthy and  surrounded by fans and women adore you  even though you're fat and ugly and old  right that's that's the fantasy what  percentage of  get to live that fantasy and look guys  i'm living my dream  i mean  probably 1 000 people are going to read  the book i just published  man i'm  trust me i'm elated all right like and  that book okay let me let me ask you  this the year 2022 if you were going to  make a top 10 list  the 10 most important books about  veganism published this year  i'm a little bit biased  where do you think i am  now some other genres it's hard  are you going to write are you going to  be in the top 10 for the the fantasy and  science fiction books too that's really  that that's hard bro okay let me tell  you i'm i i know i'm in the top ten most  i didn't say most popular books about  veganism  the most important books published about  veganism this year  the most important books published this  decade okay i know i'm going to be in  the top i know i am in the top 10.  who's my competition at this point gary  francione retired gary yarovsky an idiot  and retired you know earthling ed you  know  who's who's out there to compete with me  for book of the year or or book of the  decade who else is in that top 10 list  right now again i know my writing it's  profoundly unpopular it's unpopular for  profound reasons it's unpopular not  because it's poorly written because it  really has a jarring disturbing message  people don't want to hear right  i am not uh lamenting that i've sold  fewer copies of my book  than how not to die by dr greger uh  followed up by its sequel how not to  diet oh shout out to the skinny [ __ ]  diet oh how many more how many more  copies could i have sold if i'd written  this kind of book right no no my dude if  i sell 1 000 copies i'm elated i'm  delighted i'm over the moon and guys if  i sell 200 copies i still know i wrote  this book that was tremendously  important within this this new genre  right like you know that's that's where  i'm at i'm happy about it okay  but this gets it something else that's  interesting here  which is that i don't  think of myself as a writer i don't  think of myself as an author you know  and i would never say this for myself  sorry i don't want to show this guy's  name on screen i would not say this by  myself i wouldn't say oh i've always  thought of myself as a writer like as my  career or as my identity or something  like that right  you know um  [Music]  and look i mean again i say if i were  talking to someone in person  this is where it can get a bit  confrontational this is where it can get  a bit  intimidating where you're really asking  why  now  melissa had an interview uh recently you  had a you had a phone interview  where they were asking i'm just going to  be vague about what the job was but they  were asking why do you want to do this  job  i felt i just found it really funny you  know  um  they basically said you why tell me why  you wanted this job and don't say it's  for the money  you have to have some lofty or purpose  or ambition for why you want this job uh  you know i was in the room well you know  why why do you want to be a writer or  why do you think you want to be a writer  you know obviously it's not for the  money  why  you know why and you know maybe the  answer is is something wholesome and  good but maybe it's a little bit dark  you know maybe the reality is that you  want to be adored and famous and you  don't want to do any of the things that  famous people do to earn that adoration  and acclaim you know what i mean you  don't want to have to get out you don't  want to get on stage and face the the  cheering and also the booing of the  crowd you don't want to have to work for  them but you don't want to go through  all the things that musicians go through  so on and so forth maybe there is a  specific reason why being a writer you  know really appeals to you now  uh in the 21st century  uh  published media books on paper  magazine articles anything like this  they are no longer a leading indicator  they're a lagging indicator so i just  said hey probably one thousand people  are going to read my book it's one  dollar by the way  this is another reason why i can be  assured it's going to reach pretty large  audience very cheap book you can get it  from amazon for 99 cents in europe and  so on um  maybe a buck 30 in canada it's a little  bit different this way okay you know  um  you know obviously you're not  doing this for the money  [Music]  those people  if it's one thousand people  they're reading that book  because they already know me because  they already trust me or because they  have some kind of curiosity about what  i'm gonna say  based on youtube based on this medium  right here  right  a greater and greater percentage of  books are published in that way today  right  it's published because the interest in  the book has already been created by  something on social media or otherwise  outside of the book something that's  happened in real life so it's happening  broadcast media some other creative art  form and that's very much the opposite  of the way the world used to work it  used to be that you published a book  first and then it got made into a movie  now in a lot of ways you got to get out  and make the movie first so that people  read the book  so he says fiction or non-fiction so any  of you in the audience this is great  advice do you want to write a book let's  just say about ecology  let's say specifically about an  ecological disaster there's a specific  river or a specific valley a specific  forest and it's it's ruined it's wrecked  it's and okay  the only way you're going to sell that  book  is by making a documentary movie first  and then publish the book and say on the  cover  here's the book  with the same title as or tied into the  hit documentary movie and i'll be honest  even if the movie is a flop  your ability to get a mainstream  publisher to publish and distribute this  book and give it a chance give it a shot  of reaching a larger audience it's  completely going to hang on the  documentary movie so most of my audience  are vegan  you know uh cowspiracy any of those if  you published cowspiracy the book to  come out accompanying the documentary  movie you have a hit documentary movie  then it's then it's gonna sell but if if  you just have a book by some guy  about some ecological disaster how many  copies are you going to sell right today  in the 21st century the answer is is  practically zero this is what i say i'm  slightly misusing the terms leading  indicator and lagging indicator in their  economic sense but i'm saying you know  the leading medium is now no longer  writing so what sense does it make to  want to be a writer if you're basically  talking about a derivative  art form right you know um  what is it there's this overused uh joke  that writing about music  is like dancing about architecture  if you haven't heard it i've heard that  a hundred times you know oh well what's  the point writing an article about music  right writing about music it's like  dancing about architecture you know it's  kind of very arch ridiculous sense okay  look you know  the reality is in the 21st century right  you can write a book about dance  any kind of dance imaginable how has  dance changed in cuba over the last 20  years with the collapse of communism you  know okay you can write a book about  dance you can write a book about  architecture you know any of these  things  but today  right  you you're gonna have to make  at least a hit youtube video if not a  documentary movie about dance you're  going to have to get out and dance  you can do a reality tv show you're  going to get to have to get out and do  the thing itself right in order to have  a book that sells that's attached to it  right i would say that for the most  mainstream of interests let alone when  we get into the more esoteric and more  political interests because i'm someone  writing for a minority with a minority  without minority right  um  [Music]  so look you know real talk  um  [Music]  what if i wanted to publish a book about  buddhism  right  i got 10 years in the game and but it's  not enough  i've got to go and make a documentary  film  i could make a documentary film that  completely consists  of interviewing  former buddhist monks buddhist monks who  lost their faith reflecting on their  past  doesn't have to be a hit like whether  it's like it's on netflix or it's on  hulu or something but we have a  documentary  film and it's called buddhism colon lost  faith  you know  buddhism colon all is impermanent even  buddhism that's the title you know okay  and it's just talking to these guys and  translating bringing together their  experience and examining like and what  are the effects of buddhism on these  these people's lives okay  now you've got a book deal now you've  got a book that can sell and i'm not  saying that's a hit movie right that's  not going to be like the next bruce  willis movie or something right but the  fact that you produced it the fact that  you can show it you know again i'm not  just writing about dance i'm actually  getting out there and dancing if you can  see it on youtube you can see it on film  right and now i'm going to go that's the  era we're living  you know and  just saying you know  look some of you in the audience are  just sitting there with your arms  crossed like yeah we know already for  some of you it's not surprising the  sense in which it's surprising is if you  have grown up with this idea of being a  writer  being a writer as something separable  from just  being  no no you get out and you actually do  buddhism  and then you know you lose your faith in  buddhism and then you make a film  interviewing other people lost their  faith in buddhism okay now you've got  something and now you can write it up  right and apply this to everything sorry  whether it's dance or architecture or  anything else you've got to go out and  do architecture do a great film just  talking about what a ripoff  you know going to college to study  architecture is you can you can  interview disillusioned architecture  students people dropped out and people  used to be architects and quit to do  some other job talking about a lousy  line of work architecture is how people  think it's a great line of work and  stairwell  sorry it's just parallel the example  okay and now you've got now you've got a  basis for for a book that will sell but  you see  being and doing and knowing  in this sense now are not separable from  from writing this idea of being a writer  um  and that's why to me it's just slightly  strange it's not totally observable  strange to then to then have the  sentence in the message quote i also  know there's no use being a writer if  you have nothing to write about right  now again um  i already established earlier in this  monologue  writing is not diaristic  writing is not about self-expression  writing is not about reflection it's not  about introspection  writing is about communicating something  to a reader writing is about  communicating period there's nothing  else going on there you know like if i  make that film it's not about what  buddhism means for me it's about what  buddhism means for you  and i'm going to stuff it down your  [ __ ] throat  i'm going to tell you what buddhism  ought to mean to you and if you if you  started watching this film with a  different set of beliefs about buddhism  i want to totally break you down and  shake you up so by the end of watching  this movie buddhism doesn't mean to you  now what it meant to you before right if  any of you have read my books  you will know the feeling i'm talking  about i got a compliment from jj  mccullough the other day i think i got  out him on this it was interesting the  way he phrased this is not the way i  think about writing he said that when he  reads my book when he reads my finished  writing he says right away he feels this  sense of confidence that i get across in  my writing he says the same confidence  he feels not listening to my monologues  interesting compliment i can take a  compliment is it is it confidence  you know  obviously he completes it's just a  compliment he just meant it to to  flatter me or to  thank me for the the book once he  started reading it you know i i get it  but i think in the context of what i've  said to you it's it's not really  confidence  we're talking about at all right if  you've actually gone out and seen these  things and done these things and being  these things yourself like i have been  buddhist and now i'm an exponenti you  know i've been there i've seen that i've  done that right it's not it's not about  confidence anymore and again  it's sorry this is what i want to say  i think the contrast is between what he  perceives as my confidence and the lack  of self-confidence someone has when  they're instead engaged in diuristic  writing uh  self-analysis self-examination  self-indulge this this kind of thing  this uh pouring your heart out this you  know uh where where you're you're  talking about your own feelings for  yourself as opposed to saying look  whoever you are in the audience i have  something to say to you and this is you  know this is why it's so important  that's i think that's what he's reading  as confidence is that fundamentally my  mode of writing is transitive rather  than reflexive it's not self-referential  and self-examining it's you know  it's it's examining you and it's  communicating on you and it is trying to  change your mind it's trying to change  you as a reader in that sense it would  not be too much to say that all of my  books  are an attempt at a transformative  experience for the reader um  i'll just say sorry my father was a fool  it was he was wrong about practically  everything but it's interesting to note  he he had a very similar idea um  you know when he made museums and he  wrote the text that was going to go into  the museum when he was designing and  creating a museum his objective was to  transform the attitude  of the visitor the attitude of the  reader he said he wasn't trying to  burden them with information with facts  with data it was that they show up and  see the museum and then they  fundamentally leave with a different  attitude with a changed attitude it's an  interesting conceit  i think my father was a terrible writer  finds his books really hard to read  put it this way i find i find it  impossible to force myself to read his  books i find him so so badly written but  i think you know he was onto something  with that idea of what the relationship  is between  author and an audience and maybe that's  what's being perceived or misperceived  as confidence okay  quote i don't want to be someone who  works for years honing my craft only to  write shallow and empty books so that to  me is the ultimate riddle of hashtag  booktube authortube hashtag writertube  what you see again and again is this  fetishization of craft  fetishization of  technique commodification of method  and then  you know  trying to propound one particular set of  tips one particular technique one method  as being the secret key that's going to  unlock success for you very similar to  diet and weight loss gurus and this kind  of thing i saw one video that was  claiming  um  revisions are bad  never revise your right  this guy no you know you do an outline  you write the whole book no revisions if  you make revisions it'll only make the  book worse you know that's that's his  technique and someone else is probably  making a video saying oh you have to do  at least 10 revisions and get 10  different people to read your book give  your feedback and do it  here's the secret to success one method  one technique or top 10 methods  techniques but you know my perspective  of being real with you my perspective is  craft is nothing  you know technique is  nothing i i for me it comes back to that  allegory of the boxer i had right at the  beginning of the video which is you know  you know either you have what it takes  to compete or you don't either you have  what it takes to get in the ring and  punch someone in the face and get  punched in the face you know  either you've either you've got it or  you don't um  now you know some of you may be thinking  well that's easy for you to say some of  you may be thinking  well that's easy to say because you're a  good writer or you may be thinking it's  because i always have me a good writer  no  i have always appreciated  reading books reading primary sources  written by total outsiders people with  very limited literacy in english frankly  i just give an example i read a book  written by a military commander in  cambodia who fought in several  successive wars his english was very  poor  i read a book i read several books  written by cambodian refugees  i've also read just sort of straight  interview transcripts with different  kinds of  cambodian thai and lotion survivors of  different kinds of disasters frankly um  you know even primary sources from your  history of europe some of the research i  did on russia the quality of english is  very poor the quality of composition is  reported i've read accounts again  whether it's from kind of soldiers or  refugees i've read a lot of war  material this is not the only example  back when i was married to an  anthropologist i read a lot of  anthropology a lot of that's in broken  english and so on you know  like you know you can be sorry one book  i read that's very memorable to me  um is the account of a tribal person in  myanmar he really grew up in a remote  tribal group where they still practiced  animism and had ancient beliefs and you  know  anyway different types of  frankly ritual self-mutilation and what  have you  you know not great stylistically not  great in terms of craft so it's it's  fine like i get it someone might see  this oh well you're saying craft is  nothing but that's just because you're  like gifted at writing or that i'm that  i'm skilled because i have so many years  of practice i do have many many years of  practice as a writer and you know like  okay maybe there's some like like i see  your critique some extent but my  response to that is say no  i think actually i regard craft as  nothing partly because i have read  things written from a cree and ojibwe  perspective from a burmese perspective  from a cambodian perspective and just  from like a soldier in world war ii's  perspective from people who really had  no craft at all  and  i got to tell you when you get in the  ring  either you have what it takes to knock  them out or you don't you know what i  mean you have a story to tell and guys  uh  you know uh there's this really kind of  prurient demi mod of true crime writing  you know there's this whole demi-monde  of actually autobiographies of  prostitutes and now thanks to youtube  you can just watch direct  videotape of prostitutes talking about  their lives  very often now i'm not generalizing  hashtag not all prostitutes some of  those women have formal literary  education some of them write in a very  uh inflected and style i'm sure but many  of them obviously their ability as a  writer or their ability as a as a rec  hunter you know they are they are  speaking in very blunt and artless ways  but still you know so i'm saying  actually what i what i see is having  real literary quality what i see as  being good writing uh doesn't doesn't  rely on on craft  um  look so guys even right now  the research i'm doing right now for the  book i could hold this up  it's a book it looks like any other the  research i'm doing for my own book i'm  reading a lot of material from  the american revolution and the guys who  directly participated that including  soldiers you know including people who  committed atrocities with their bare  hands um really  not just in war but torturing people and  so on and so forth  and  again you can imagine a lot of that the  quality of writing is very poor but it's  still tremendously moving or  tremendously important so again this  isn't uh  isn't as simple as saying english as a  first language versus uh versus english  as a second language and so forth so  have a comment from the audience here go  figure says quote your critique of  technique would apply to the entire  self-help industry oh  yes  so he says their channels are riddled  with one method after another that  doesn't work out for them  maybe the most extreme would be  speed reading i don't know if you're  aware of that scam of teaching people  speed reading that's probably the single  most extreme example of this  um  [Music]  yeah i don't know um  [Music]  i think i think there's an interesting  question  of whether self-help  is the purest  or the most impure  of the forms of creative writing  but i'll say this with a certain degree  of skepticism you know  it's possible you really could be  you could learn to become a better  writer by reading really awful self-help  books  and i think if you if you reflect on  what i've said in the last one hour  you'd see why i'm saying that because  self-help  it's very much written often paragraph  by paragraph page by page chapter by  chapter it's written to have a direct  effect on the writer  that's pardon me a direct effect on the  reader  it's written so that every page in every  paragraph is going to transform your  attitude so that you maybe you just read  that chapter and you put the book down  and say wow i used to see things this  way and now i see them this way  so i don't read self-help books at all i  don't  but you could even criticize me by  saying i i have this in common in my  writing with self-help books that i want  this very impactful style where i'm  reaching out to you and every chapter  it's really going to change your way of  thinking you came into this chapter with  one set of assumptions you leave with  another you you read this book you sat  down to read this book as one person you  stood up after you finished it and  you're a different man you've you  completely changed my room that is what  i'm going for  so yeah the self-help industry in some  ways it's it's the worst  of all forms of of non-fiction writing  but in in some ways right i'm conceding  the point that you might you might learn  to be the best  kind of writer by examining the ways in  which that's that's awful  um  [Music]  all right so i'll finish maybe more to  say about this babe melissa sitting off  camera  quote so i'm trying to figure out how to  juggle the advancement of my craft with  the dispelling of my ignorance and  within that there are many individual  research projects i could take up  how do you approach  having broad interests  when you just read a few articles when  you read a few books and when you devote  years of your life to something as you  did with buddhism  so melissa here is uh  tell me melissa for how many years have  you been studying chinese  yeah devoting years of your life to  something it can creep up on you  did you when you uh when you first got  dressed in chinese were you thinking uh  this would be a five-year 10-year  commitment was that was that how you  felt do you sit down and think hmm  this looks like it's going to take about  10 years ago how did you at what point  did you realize i mean  yeah i don't know if i had an impression  of how long it would take based off of  you know you advanced so rapidly in  chinese just in a period of seven months  or something when you're living in china  um  no i i mean  look i you know i moved to china in 2017  and um  it wasn't really until 2018 that i  started taking it seriously and  yeah i know i i um  it's really this past year that i've  been  going as hard as i have with chinese  and i  yeah i mean i i think  the more i think about it you're  probably right in terms of this right  idea of balance and broad interests  right uh because i do have broad  interests i am interested in a lot of  different historical  political philosophical economic topics  and  you know  how much have i actually read of any of  these subjects you know  um  i would probably have been better off if  i would have really  just  for one month devoted myself to reading  like and finishing one what you know my  focus on one subject one book rather  than trying to  you know piece together all these  different  research interests and yeah so i i am  try i try to remain open-minded about  learning and  i i am just pointing out when you first  started talking to me so when we got  together you were 24  right  you said openly that you had no idea  what it was like to really commit to  something like this for many years right  i'm pointing out already now you do  now you know what it's like  you know but i'm also pointing out there  wasn't some simple  fork in the road  you know i you could say there were many  forks in the road and many points of  reconsideration or or what have you but  depending on how you count it we could  say you are five years into chinese you  know what i mean now what we we can also  say just as another example you're  reading of ancient greek and roman stuff  what have you got you've got uh plutarch  yeah have you got plutocrat i bought her  this beautiful copy of plutarch that can  be yours for anyway these are these are  not those but this is a famous uh series  of editions the lobe editions of the  classification so but she's still  reading stuff from grace room  it has been at least three years but  probably four years that you've been  reading  four years for reading stuff from  from ancient greece i'm just putting  this in the context of that question now  you may not have thought this would be a  four-year  project  and and it may go on it may it may be  ten years you may read material from  greece and rome for ten years that would  not be you know if we now predict  another six years and at some point  you've read it all or whatever you know  now you know it's not part of your life  though anymore it's possible uh with  chinese at what point will you know  enough chinese again uh ten years would  be a probably a conservative estimate  you probably could we're just like no no  at some point you're just completely  fluent in chinese you don't have to work  on anymore possible it could be 20 years  you know like you know um  my point is to challenge this idea  you know how do you know  when you're interested in something  you're committing to it from years i  don't know how old this guy is you know  and again i try to present these videos  when i think this is still meaningful if  you're 49 or 59 why i think you know it  is  but for most of us already at age 29  melissa is in a position to reflect on  how these kinds of commitments how it  can become five years real quick  you know  yeah i just say i  sorry keep going back to  your example of um you know you really  were studying buddhism for yeah yeah  intensely  uh did you read  you know  maybe this is dude  did you read anything from ancient  greece or ancient rome during that  period  great question no nothing  no no i mean you know uh so no during  that period of my life  you know  it wasn't just buddhism but i was  reading the ancient history  i was reading the modern history i was  reading the colonial history in between  in between ancient and modern i was  reading how all those things were  connected so you know like  just use one example so how france  conquered  laos  how that relates to the more ancient  you know origins of buddhism and history  of those countries and what the culture  was like before the french got there and  then the anti-colonial struggle and  getting into the modern period and  getting into comics so that was a lot to  read you know so no i was consumed with  and and just to give an example i mean  india was not my research focus but  still i read several books about  politics of india and still to this day  it always seems to me embarrassing that  i know more about india than other  white people and it's like well guys  this wasn't even in my top 10  research interests but i seem to know  more about india than everyone else  around me including university  professors but like you can imagine so  history and politics of india different  periods of time so i'm just saying  buddhism for me was not just buddhism  another great example is just slavery so  i wanted to know the whole history of  slavery how it was connected to buddhism  in different periods of history how it  was collected connected to politics i  want to know the legal history of these  countries what was their legal system  before europeans arrived and started  conquering them what was their legal  system after europeans left  you know etc so again political and  historical but yeah buddhism is a part  of it but i had a lot to read and a lot  to study  i know i mean that that that those  things  along with studying the languages and  along with having to get a job and pay  my rent and buy my groceries  that was a whole life it was an  all-consuming yeah research interest and  fashion yeah  no no no it's good but i mean you're  asking this but you know no for many  years  you know anything like aristotle and  plato it really disappeared from my life  that's a good you know thing to  highlight there were other things i was  interested and cared about that really  that really disappeared from my life  yeah  yeah i was just  trying to remember what else in his  yeah so anyway um  yeah i know i i i don't know if but that  is a conglomeration of a lot of  different subjects that you just you  know you weren't just studying the uh  you know ancient uh  scripture right  yeah inscriptions that whole time but i  did also  i did also in study ancient stone  inscriptions and manuscripts and ancient  sacred texts and  yeah religion of losses i did all that  also yes yeah yeah but the modern  languages too yeah  yeah so look i was just making the point  i mean  you know like like i'm challenging the  question the question was you know how  do you know when something's just a  minor interest or whether it's something  you you commit here's your life too you  know but i mean i think you can see why  that question wouldn't  come up to me because it wouldn't come  up for me it wouldn't come up in that  way it wouldn't be a problem it wouldn't  be problematized in that way right i'm  all commitment all the time  you know  [Laughter]  just just keeping it real i mean either  something is worth doing  or it's not  you know i don't garden i don't watch  sports  i don't think about a balance between  gardening and watching sports and the  research i'm doing or the publishing i'm  doing  and look i said before i've never really  had a period of time when i thought of  myself as a as a writer  you know like like thinking of yourself  as a novelist where that's your that's  your identity but i think the truth is  my generation  and the next generation coming up after  me we didn't have the luxury of thinking  ourselves as as writers i i never had  the luxury of even surviving by  publishing newspaper articles when i was  in cambodia when i was in laos and so on  and specifically when i was in cambodia  this is for different reasons but partly  because of freedom of speech so when i  was in laos laos was a total communist  dictatorship cambodia there was some  freedom of speech some  and um  [Music]  you know when i was in cambodia many  many people said to me after sometimes  i've targeted me for a short period of  time but sometimes i've talked to me  about politics like an hour they say wow  well look you're amazing you know all  this stuff  just as i've described now sort of  history and politics and what have you  and i was very articulate talking about  so you should be publishing articles for  you know  i don't know whatever they said the  times of london or you know they'd named  some some newspapers and i'm like no no  no like no it's it's actually impossible  for me to earn money as a journalist  it's actually impossible for me to earn  money as a as a writer  so you know then you're into a period of  time when the question is what are you  and who are you  [Music]  independent researcher  well what if you do research nobody  wants to pay for what if you're doing  research that tells people things they  don't want to hear  um you know what if you're telling  truths that are too terrible to tell  whether that's that's buddhism so you  know for me i could never have my  identity  my sense of self-worth or anything else  you know attached to  the life of a writer or the identity of  a writer that was just not possible  for me and my generation  yeah go on  yeah i could just say that  in my experience of  having chosen english as my major yes  right diversity  i had people ask me are you going to  become a writer and i had to  answer no  for these reasons essentially because  there was no way to earn money as a  journalist they didn't even have a  degree in journalism at my university  right uh which is probably the only area  that i would have been interested in as  a writer is  journalism non-fiction is kind of this  kind of area of writing uh so  look i you know you have far more  experience with writing than i do and um  i i just  it is a shame it is a shame that you  can't earn money these days uh as a  writer  and you know i have to think about what  the future is with  um  you know what  and yeah i just have to say i think i  think you're probably you know hitting  the nail on the head if you want your  writing to be  uh  you know  recognized you have to do something else  whether it's youtube making a  documentary film or you know dancing  uh being a performer making a reality tv  show or something like that seems to be  how  you know  you have to go out and do something real  right right and that creates the  interest in your book yeah  and you know this has always been one of  the fundamental uh paradoxes of the  publishing world was paying in advance  paying someone to write a book that  doesn't exist yet you know paying an  author paying a journalist to go to a  country and do research and write  articles that don't exist and you don't  know what you're going to get but there  was enough money in the game decades ago  that that that sort of thing was  possible or thinkable and now  understandably it's unthinkable who  wants to pay for a book that doesn't  even exist yet and who wants to publish  a book that doesn't already have an  established audience where you can't  prove from the success of a youtube  channel or a documentary movie or  something that this is a book people  we're going to buy  so and by reading a comment that's  already been posted to patreon and i  think i currently have this comment  posted on goodreads appropriately enough  i said  publishing is dead  self-publishing on amazon is the present  and the future if you're a creative  writer and admittedly i am  you can learn to cope with that reality  or you can spend the rest of your life  bitterly resenting that you can't get  paid the same way authors did in the  1960s  the internet  changed the world  and now  we have to figure out how to change the  world  using  the internet